[Music]
Wars are a tragic part of our history
and will almost certainly be a tragic
part of our future
since the establishment of the United
Nations wars of aggression have been
outlawed and multilateral conventions
refer to armed conflict instead of war
but the Wars of the future won't be like
the Wars of our past alongside
traditional warfare our future will
include cyber warfare remotely fighting
our enemies through the use of a new
class of weapons including computer
viruses and programs to alter the
enemy's ability to operate and not only
is cyber warfare not covered by existing
legal frameworks but the question of
what exactly constitutes cyber warfare
is still highly debated so how can we
deal with cyber warfare if we can't even
agree on what it means one way forward
is to envision situations where new
international laws may be needed imagine
a new kind of assassin one that could
perpetrate a crime without firing a
single shot or even being in the same
country for example an individual
working for the government uses a
wireless device to send a signal to
another foreign leaders pacemaker this
device directs the pacemaker to
malfunction ultimately resulting in the
foreign leaders death would this cyber
assassination constitute an act of war
as the second example imagine an allied
group of Nations cooperatively
infiltrating the computer systems of an
enemy Nations nuclear warship this
attack results in a nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier almost melting down
which was stopped just short of killing
thousands of soldiers and civilians as a
defensive measure the enemy country
responds by unleashing a defensive
cyberattack that results in the Allied
nations power grids going down hospitals
can no longer treat patients entire
regions without heat or clean water all
ultimately causing tens of thousands of
civilian deaths the origin of the power
failure was the counter-attack but the
fragile infrastructure feeble
cybersecurity and the antiquated state
of the power grid all contributed to the
deaths of the civilians could the
country fight back who would they fight
and would their retaliation be
considered an act of war do they
constitute war crimes against humanity
who is to be held responsible the
computer programmers who wrote the code
the military project manager who oversaw
the creation of the code the commander
who hit the buttons setting off the
event the hardware engineer who created
the computers knowing that they were
intended to enable in a
because war has been with us for so long
we have laws to deal with figuring out
who should be held accountable for their
actions in combat these legal frameworks
aim to contain and prevent atrocities
from being more atrocious commandeering
civilian planes and using them as
weapons dropping atomic bombs the use of
gas chambers or poisonous gas in
conflict all of these actions if
committed constitute acts of war and war
crimes under customary international law
and the hague conventions again the
current legal framework stays silent on
hypothetical questions and countless
others because there are no easy answers
and there are only two ways to make
progress on these questions peace or new
laws
so what hypothetical but plausible
scenarios can you imagine falling under
the burgeoning definition of cyber
warfare and how might you design an
international legal framework to deter
these activities
you
[Music]